# Predicted-Sentiments-as-Covariates-for-Time-Series-Firecasting
Natural Language processing • Sentiment Analysis • Transformer • Time Series Analysis


The Yelp Open Dataset consists of 6 million customer reviews and corresponding meta- data, such as businesses, locations, and star ratings. This kind of user-generated content reflects customers’ most intuitive perceptions of the service (Zhang and Qiu, 2021; Pai and Liu, 2018). The largest business category in the Yelp Open Dataset is the restau- rant industry, where visitor volume is a key metric when measuring success. There is potential to research the extraction of customer satisfaction from reviews as input for forecasting visitor volume. Based on extensive research on previous work, there has been no attempt on integrating sentiment analysis techniques with time series forecast- ing techniques to forecast restaurant traffic. This project focuses on this research direction and proposes a two-stage hybrid model. The model integrates a sentiment classification model and a time series forecasting model to forecast visitor volume using customer satisfaction, estimated with sentiments expressed in customer reviews, as a covariate. The model was tested on data collected in 10 North American cities to forecast restau- rant traffic in those cities. The results showed that the RoBERTa model achieved the best performance for sentiment classification. In time series forecasting, the SARIMAX model with sentiments predicted by the RoBERTa model as covariates outperformed the other univariate and multivariate ARIMA family and ETS family models. This hybrid model achieved a MAPE of 26.27% and an RMSE of 171.09. In addition, we observed that sentiment predicted using NLP models as covariates performed better in time se- ries forecasting than using star ratings instead. This discovery suggests that there is information in customer reviews that can’t be obtained from the star rating metadata accompanying customer reviews.
